In several previous videos in this course I have mentioned the variable type of a list.
So you've already gotten a bit of an introduction into lists in Python but in this video I want to take
a few moments to tell you more about lists -- how they work, how to create them, how to work with them, how
to store different kinds of data in a list... and that's also going to lead to a discussion of slicing,
a procedure in Python called slicing.
So let's begin. I'm going to have a list and lists are indicated in Python with square brackets like
this and then you can have commas separating the different elements of the list.
So here is a list.
Let's see what it looks like when I print it out. So, well print it out.
It's not terribly interesting.
It's literally just exactly what I typed but with an extra space and we can also see that the type or
the class is a list.
So this function type will print out the variable type or the class of the input.
So this is a list. To access individual elements within a list,
you also use square brackets, so the square brackets to create a list and square brackets to access elements
in a list.
Now you always have to keep in mind with Python that Python starts counting at zero.
So if I try to access element 3 here, that's actually the fourth element and that's because this is the
zero-th element, the first element, the second element, and the third element.
So therefore I expect that list item number three.
Or with index 3 corresponds to the number 7.
Likewise, if I were to say 1 here, that's actually the second element in this list.
So that's going to be the number three because this is the zero-th item in the list, and this is the first
item in the list.
Now if you want to access the last item in the list you can also use a minus one.
That's a special procedure in Python that will immediately go to the end of the list.
Now this is pretty useful because when you have the list printed out like this, I can just see that there
are four numbers so if I want the last number it's really easy just to type three.
However, if this list were longer, or maybe this list was something that I imported from a dataset
then I might not necessarily know how long it is immediately.
So it's pretty convenient to be able to access the final item of a list by just using minus one.
Okay.
And that is going to lead into a discussion of slicing.
So this is called slicing variables in Python.
So here I showed you how to access one single element.
What if we want to access more elements?
For example, what if I want to get the first two elements here?
So the first element and the second element, corresponding to values 1 and 3.
So what you can do here is use the colon and then two, and now this will print out one comma three.
And the idea of this syntax here is that you're saying all of the elements from the beginning up and
to the index corresponding to this number minus one.
So from the beginning and then moving up for two elements gives us the zero-th element and the first
element, and you can also do this with variables, so I could say n equals 2 and then give me list from
the beginning up until 2.
So this would be slicing, to print out the first N elements. And if you wanted to do slicing to print
out the final, let's call this K elements, just to use a different variable from n here.
So I can say k equals,
Let's also stick with two. And I'm going to say list minus K and then colon, and this will print out the last
two elements of this list.
So that's 6 and 7.
So again now the principle of this syntax is that I'm going from the end minus two.
So the second to last element, this would be the first last element and here is the well k-th last element
here it's two. Up until the end.
So now I've shown you how to slice for the first N elements and for the final k elements. Of course
you can get from any arbitrary N to any arbitrary K. And to do that I actually want to make this list
a little bit longer.
So I would say just put in some random numbers.
This is going to give me an error here and this will also give me an error.
Let's do zero there.
All right.
I run this cell again.
Basically I just want more elements inside this list and now what I want to do is access.
Let's say I want to get these elements in here.
So now I have a lowercase n equals three, and K equals seven.
So by combining this syntax with this and syntax, we can write list from n through K and actually let
me copy actually I'll just print that out again.
So let's see.
Print out the full list and then we can see what elements we have here.
So remember this the zero with element and then element 1 2 3.
And that's where we started.
So n equals three starts at seven up to element K minus one.
So this seven here is element three.
And then we have four five six.
And then this will be the seventh element.
And so this syntax means just go up to the element just preceding this,
what we specify here.
So in this case the number seven.
All right.
So this is about making lists of numbers.
And for a course on using Python to understand mathematics of course it makes sense.
But I also want to point out to you that lists are not confined to numbers.
So for example I can create a new variable called words and let's call this.
Hello my name is Mike maybe that should be capital.
Okay so now I have a list.
This is still a list just like this was a list but this list now contains strings instead of containing
numbers.
So now what I'm going to do is access each individual element of this list in a for loop.
Let's say for I in words print i.
So now this loop, this for loop, is going to go through all of the individual elements and then it's just
going to print them.
So here we go.
Hello my name is Mike.
So this is one way, now the indexing variable is actually each of these cells.
I just want to show you how to set this up slightly differently, so that i -- this indexing variable -- can
be a number instead of the entire string.
So we can do for i in range 0 to the length of words.
So now I'm creating a range of numbers that starts from zero and goes up to however long this thing
is.
Now if I print i, you can see that this is going to print the numbers 0 through 4.
So now if I want to print these individual words I can say words and then in square brackets like this
the index i.
So this is now the i-th index into this list words.
So now you've seen that lists can contain numbers, a list can contain strings, and it gets even better
than that, because a list can contain multiple different kinds of information.
All in the same list.
So let's create a new list.
I'll call this alist and let's have elements 1 and 2 and then a string.
I don't know how about cookies because maybe I'm a little bit hungry at this point... and then I'm actually
going to create the last element in this list to be another list.
So let's say six comma four.
So notice I have a list that is actually an item inside a list.
So it's a list inside of a list.
Okay.
And so to see what that looks like I'm going to use a for loop.
So for i in a list and then I'm just going to print out each of these items.
So here you see the number one.
Number two these string cookies and then the list itself.
Six comma four.
So that leads to the question of how you would index for example the six?
How do you find the six here?
So we know that this is the final element of a list.
So I can write a list and then minus one.
And that's going to give me the result that this is another list on its own.
So now we need to access the first element of this list, which is a member of this list.
So the way to do that in Python is to use again square brackets afterwards.
So we have a square bracket to access the final element in a list and then from this result we want
to use another set of square brackets like this to access the zero-th element or the first element
here and that is going to be six.
And of course if you would write one here then we would get four because this is the second element
of the list, which is the final element of this larger list. It gets a little confusing to talk about.
But I think you get the idea. Here is your exercise for this video.
What you want to do is implement these three expressions using sympy.
But then I want you to put each of these three into a list. In python, a few moments ago, I showed you
how to make a list out of numbers out of strings out of a combination of numbers and strings and even
other lists.
And now what you're going to do is create a list in Python where each element of the list is an entire
sympy expression. And it's going to be these expressions and then what you want to do is using a for
loop.
Expand these expressions and print out the simplified version of these expressions using LaTeX and make
a nice looking format.
Eventually it's going to look something like this.
You have this expression up here and when you expand it, that this gets reduced to this.
And so you see each of these expressions and each of their simplifications using the expand function
the expand function in sympy.
All right.
So now is your opportunity to pause the video, work through this assignment.
And now I'm going to switch to Python and show you how I solved this.
So I believe we haven't yet imported the sympy module. So that's actually the first thing I'm going
to do.
Let's see.
Import sympy as sym.
And then we need to create a symbolic variable so I can say X equals symbols and then x.
All right.
So now I'm going to write out these expressions, so e one expression was 1 was 2 x plus X times 4 minus
6 x plus another X and then we had e 2 that was minus X times 2 divided by X plus 4 divided by.
Now here you have to be careful because the denominator was X squared.
And now the question is whether python is going to know to put these square term in the denominator
or whether python is going to implement this like this.
Now to think about this we have to remember the order of operations -- that was PEMDAS, or
Please excuse my dear aunt Sally.
So we see, first of all parentheses always takes highest priority, but exponent takes priority over division.
So that means that the this squared term actually will apply only to the X in the denominator and not
to the four in the numerator.
All right so we are good here.
That said, you know, if you think it looks nicer or easier to read with the parenthesis here, then by all
means keep it there.
So four over X squared.
And then outside the parenthesis it was plus four plus x divided by four times x.
Now in this case for the numerator we definitely need the parentheses here because otherwise division
is going to take priority over the additions here.
All right.
And then we get to expression E three and that was x plus three times x minus three times x times one
divided by nine times X. oof!
This is quite an eyeful here.
All right.
So now I have these three separate equations.
I want to put them in a list.
So let's call this variable exprs.
And I'm going to say e one comma E two comma E three.
So essentially I'm creating these three expressions up here in this part of the code.
These expressions are separate objects, separate sympy objects.
And now here I put them into a single list.
All right.
And then what I want to do is show the original expression and then the expanded form of the expression.
So that has to be done in a for loop but before worrying about the for loop I'm gonna make sure that
I can get this to work for just one element.
So just one expression.
So let's say display math and then this is going to be the expression let's call it c e 1 and then I'm
going to need some kind of an arrow here and then e one again.
All right.
So now let's start doing some replacement.
So this is going to be.
Percent s.
And then here another percent s.
And now we want to replace these with two strings.
This is going to be sympy latex so the latex version of E one and then the same that latex.
I need a dot there.
sym dot latex of the expanded version.
Expand of E 1.
Okay.
So let's run this code and see if we get any errors.
We don't get any errors so far it's looking pretty decent except we have this arrow here.
So what I actually want this to be is a double sided arrow.
And so the keyword that I'm going to use in latex for this is a long left right arrow.
So that's going to give me a double sided arrow.
So this is looking pretty good.
I want a little bit of space in in between the expression and the arrows.
I'm going to write quad to give me a little bit of room and then quad again here.
All right.
I think that just provides a little bit nicer visual separation here.
Okay so we got this to work for expression 1.
So what I'm gonna do now is get this to work for all of the expressions in the loop.
So let's call this expri in the exprs.
So I'm using a looping variable that ends with the letter i, as a reminder to me that this is an index
variable inside a for loop.
And now essentially we just need to replace e one with expri.
So now I'm going to run this code again, but we get an error and the error is an indentation error, expected
an indented block.
So you remember from the very beginning of this course, that I told you that a for loop needs to have
indented code, and that is how Python knows which code belongs inside the for loop and which code belongs
outside the for loop.
So in particular you need four spaces one two three four.
And you can also see if there's not enough spaces there's the insufficient number of spaces then this
first function turns red.
And so now it turns black.
All right.
Very nice.
This looks really nice.
So in this video I gave you a more in-depth view into working with lists in Python.
And I also showed you how to slice lists in Python in order to access individual elements or groups of
elements inside a list.
You will have many more opportunities throughout this course and in your career as programmers to work
with lists.
So if it's not yet totally clear then don't worry.
There's going to be more opportunities for learning.